README.md, before:

# Jenkins Artifact Mirroring Made Easy
## Because sometimes you need a local mirror of stuff

Jenkronize is a simple tool that leverages the Jenkins REST API to find artifacts for specified jobs, which it will then download into the specified local directory.
You could then, for instance, set up a simple HTTP fileserver make those artifacts available to local VMs, saving your internet bandwidth for other things.

## Running

Simply run `./jenkronize` (on \*Nix systems) or `jenkronize.exe` (on Windows).
If there is no preexisting `config.yaml` in the same dir as the executable, an example config will be generated.
State (eg. last observed build) is stored in `state.json`; currently, if you remove tracked jobs from your config you must also delete them from your state file (or simply delete the state file altogether, though this would mean that other tracked jobs will have their artifacts downloaded again)

## Configuration

An example configuration:
```yaml
jenkins:
  username: theJenkinsUser
  password: theJenkinsUsersPassword!VerySecure?
  url: https://some.domain.fqdn/leeroy/jenkins
tracker:
  interval: 10m0s
  trackedjobs:
  - name: /job/installer/job/master
    alias: installer
    sync_dir: /opt/jenkins-sync/installer
    # How many extra builds to cache locally; older builds will get removed after the new one is downloaded.
    # Set to a negative number to keep all builds (you may run out of disk space) or 0 to keep only the current build.
    # Defaults to 0 if omitted.
    builds_to_cache: 1
  - name: /job/database-access-layer/job/master
    alias: DAL
    sync_dir: /opt/jenkins-sync/database-access-layer
  - name: /job/web-interface
    alias: UI
    sync_dir: /opt/jenkins-sync/web-interface
slack:
  webhook: https://hooks.slack.com/services/T00000000/B00000000/XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
  channel: "#jenkronize"
logfile: /opt/jenkins-sync/jenkronize.log
```

### jenkins
- `username`: the username for accessing the Jenkins API via basic auth
- `password`: the password for accessing the Jenkins API via basic auth
- `url`: the full URL to your Jenkins instance, eg. `https://leeroy.jenkins.yourdomain.org` or `http://yourdomain.org/leeroy/jenkins`

### tracker
- `interval`: the time to wait between checks for new builds. It uses Go's `time.Duration` format, eg `10s`, `2m` or `1m13s24ns` - see https://golang.org/pkg/time/#ParseDuration
- `trackedjobs`: A list of Jenkins jobs you want to track and synchronize artifacts from. Each entry should include the following:
    - `name` should be the path after the Jenkins URL for the jobs you want to track; for example `/job/foo/job/bar`.
    - `alias` (optional) can be whatever you want; it's used to make logs a bit more readable instead of referring to the job path all the time. If omitted, will default to be the job path.
    - `sync_dir` is path to the directory where you want to cache the artifacts from that job. If the dir doesn't exist, Jenkronize will attempt to create it.

### slack
- `webhook`: (optional) an incoming webhook for Slack notifications.
- `channel`: (optional) the Slack channel to post notifications.

### logfile
(optional) the path where you want to log output to. If omitted, logs will go to `stdout` and `stderr`

## Building

Builds are currently using Go version 1.12.9

External dependencies include:
- `github.com/go-yaml/yaml`
- `github.com/cavaliercoder/grab`
They can be installed with eg. `go get github.com/go-yaml/yaml`

Once the dependencies are installed, simply `cd` into the top-level directory of the repository and `go build .`

Commit message:

added build script and dockerfile/docker-compose.yaml

README.md, after:

# Jenkins Artifact Mirroring Made Easy
## Because sometimes you need a local mirror of stuff

Jenkronize is a simple tool that leverages the Jenkins REST API to find artifacts for specified jobs, which it will then download into the specified local directory.
You could then, for instance, set up a simple HTTP fileserver make those artifacts available to local VMs, saving your internet bandwidth for other things.

## Running

Simply run `./jenkronize` (on \*Nix systems) or `jenkronize.exe` (on Windows).
If there is no preexisting `config.yaml` in the same dir as the executable, an example config will be generated.
State (eg. last observed build) is stored in `state.json`; currently, if you remove tracked jobs from your config you must also delete them from your state file (or simply delete the state file altogether, though this would mean that other tracked jobs will have their artifacts downloaded again)

### Docker

The build script will also build a docker image, which you can use to launch jenkronize with an nginx file server via the docker-compose file included in this repository. You should make sure you've edited the docker-compose.yaml first to point to the correct jenkronize config.yaml file and `touch` the log file first.

## Configuration

An example configuration:
```yaml
jenkins:
  username: theJenkinsUser
  password: theJenkinsUsersPassword!VerySecure?
  url: https://some.domain.fqdn/leeroy/jenkins
tracker:
  interval: 10m0s
  trackedjobs:
  - name: /job/installer/job/master
    alias: installer
    sync_dir: /opt/jenkins-sync/installer
    # How many extra builds to cache locally; older builds will get removed after the new one is downloaded.
    # Set to a negative number to keep all builds (you may run out of disk space) or 0 to keep only the current build.
    # Defaults to 0 if omitted.
    builds_to_cache: 1
  - name: /job/database-access-layer/job/master
    alias: DAL
    sync_dir: /opt/jenkins-sync/database-access-layer
  - name: /job/web-interface
    alias: UI
    sync_dir: /opt/jenkins-sync/web-interface
slack:
  webhook: https://hooks.slack.com/services/T00000000/B00000000/XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
  channel: "#jenkronize"
logfile: /opt/jenkins-sync/jenkronize.log
```

### jenkins
- `username`: the username for accessing the Jenkins API via basic auth
- `password`: the password for accessing the Jenkins API via basic auth
- `url`: the full URL to your Jenkins instance, eg. `https://leeroy.jenkins.yourdomain.org` or `http://yourdomain.org/leeroy/jenkins`

### tracker
- `interval`: the time to wait between checks for new builds. It uses Go's `time.Duration` format, eg `10s`, `2m` or `1m13s24ns` - see https://golang.org/pkg/time/#ParseDuration
- `trackedjobs`: A list of Jenkins jobs you want to track and synchronize artifacts from. Each entry should include the following:
    - `name` should be the path after the Jenkins URL for the jobs you want to track; for example `/job/foo/job/bar`.
    - `alias` (optional) can be whatever you want; it's used to make logs a bit more readable instead of referring to the job path all the time. If omitted, will default to be the job path.
    - `sync_dir` is path to the directory where you want to cache the artifacts from that job. If the dir doesn't exist, Jenkronize will attempt to create it.

### slack
- `webhook`: (optional) an incoming webhook for Slack notifications.
- `channel`: (optional) the Slack channel to post notifications.

### logfile
(optional) the path where you want to log output to. If omitted, logs will go to `stdout` and `stderr`

## Building

- You must have Go version 1.12.9 installed
- Run `./build`
